# WeTrust-POC-demo

This file describes basics of usage test automation suite package for WeTrust POC Demo app. 

The test framework comes as a zip folder, which contains following key components: 
 - JAR file (archived executable version of code package)
 - xls folder with 3 minimal required DDT files used by test script: DDT_Global.xls, GUI_Map.xls and TC_list.xls 
 - the ‘upload’ directory which contains webdriver driver for FF-3
- log4j.properties  standard config file, required by java 

To run script please make sure you have a recent version of FF browser installed on your system. It’s a critical condition to run the test script. When you done with all this, open a console window and cd into your package dir. From the console verify that your directory contains all files described above. To run execute command: java -jar <Jar_File_Name> + Enter

If you did everything correct you will see test log started in the console. Recommend - maximize the console window for better vision of log details. Ideally, if you run it on separate monitor from browser. In 15-30 sec you should see a browser window get launched, starting with default Google page and then navigating to WeTrust test demo app. By default it should run all tests listed in TC_List.xls file. 

You need to know reg role and use of those 3 key xls files. They containing DDT data, which is deeply integrated in every aspect of given framework. For now, you can think only about these two: TC_list.xls and DDT_Global.xls. In TCs file you can define your own desired test scope from the list of available high-level test cases. To enable/disable any TC just set ‘1’ or ‘0’ accordingly for every test case in the next column on the same row. You may want to narrow down a test scope to those TCs where you see failures. And there ARE failures, probably made in the app in purpose of view testing efficiency. If you look DDT_Global tbl you will notice the same concept - having global value name in the left column and its associated value in the column right, where you see ‘1’ in the 2nd (brown) row of col #3. This makes that column being used to retrieve values from and assign in global hashMap obj with key values made after corresponding names in 1st column. Like you can make this script running against another URL, or decrease ‘to’ (timeOut) limit for not found expected UI objs and for synching, and so on. You can run selenium on remote server too, by simply enabling that feature by entering ‘1’ in the col #6 row 6, selenium standalone server is running, and where you should also install FF browser. And so on. 

In the simple way - just unpack the file in your local dir, cd to it from console and execute that java -jar command as described above. The full set of tests currently available script runs about 20-25 mins per 1 cycle. After that you will see a nicely formatted list of test results with test names and execution status. Most of those tests have been dynamically generated by ‘matrix’ of different users and permissions/relationships between then. If we change those users (add more, create more groups, etc) the users parser class should be updated accordingly and scripts will recalculate ‘on fly’ all combinations to test and generate list of dynamic TCs. Each scenario tested is reported as individual test case/scenario. But all tests are combined and running by high-level categories TCs described earlier, by TC_List table. 

Pls be aware, that by observing test logs in the console sometime you will notice a blocks of similar lines by packets of 10 lines showing waiting for something. This is made in purpose, that’s how it works and used for debugging. For example, test script expects status value shown as ‘permission denied’, but instead, it sees unexpected ‘success’ msg, but it waits for expected value to appear. 10 sec - is a ‘to’ timeOut limit set by DDT_Global table. Feel free to change it to something like ‘5’ and try. That’s the concept of test: if expected UI element didn’t appear, synching mechanism triggering an exception and test gets failed. You may enjoy to see how script reacts and handles such failure scenarios. They all are reflected in test status at the end. 

For any Qs or comments feel free to contact me at any time by: 
linuxaa@yahoo.com
+1-408-854-1958

Try to run this test framework in your own way: change the test scope from TCs list and params from DDT tables, loop it for like overnight multy-cycle tests, etc., and observing the results. I am sure, more hidden bugs application can be found there if write more tests. 
